In this next group of videos,
I wanna show you how to do authentication.
Now, what I want for this schedule browser
is to have a little log in link here,
and when you authenticate, it'll show you your avatar,
and as I mentioned before, it'll have these notes,
and those notes will be tied to that individual user.
Now, authentication, there's no one way of doing it.
You might have your own authentication provider,
you might want to use Google as a third party,
you might want to use GitHub, there's a lot of choices.
How you manage that data in a database is up to you,
there's different ways of doing it.
The thing that I'm kind of quite used to
for smaller projects is Express, Passport and Bongo.
It's entirely possible that
those words just mean nothing to you.
But there are lots of different ways of doing it.
I can't solve every way in these videos.
But what I can do, is show you how I would do this
on the client's side.
I've configured a back end which is all in GitHub,
which kind of creates, allows for authentication,
again it's GitHub, and we're gonna implement authentication
both in the client's side and the server's side.
Now non-client side application is something
that's purely rendered server side,
the authentication happens on the server side,
a session is set, and a session ID is passed back and forth
between the browser, the client,
and the server via an HTTP only cookie.
So it means that the client itself has no access to that,
and it knows nothing about the session,
knows nothing about the logged in state,
but when it makes a request,
because the cookie has that session ID,
it's able to authenticate the user,
and render kind of protected content to that request.
Because we've got client side and server side,
the client's side needs to know what the user is signed in.
So that's the challenge that we have to solve now,
without exposing any secret keys into the browser.
So that's what we're gonna try and solve
throughout these videos.
But the very starting point is to get a user into this view.
So I want to get the user all the way down to the layout,
to the header to say they're logged in or not logged in.
Okay so, the starting point,
or one of the ways to solve this
is to use a higher auto component.
So the idea of the higher auto component
is that it wraps my component
and it's able to make a request to check
if the user is authenticated and it will pass that down
into my component here and give me the user.
So, this is not an uncommon pass in React,
but there are some particular aspects you have to get right,
for it to work with Next.
So I've created a directory called HOCs,
okay and I have a file called withuser,
and that's gonna be my higher auto component.
So I'm gonna import withuser from HOCs
and then withuser, so there's not much in there right now,
but we'll have a look at it in a moment.
And what we're gonna do is
instead of exporting our index component,
we're going to export a wrapped component.
So this is our wrapped component around the index.
And withuser is going to provide the user down into this.
So hit save and open up withuser,
okay so there's not much in here at the moment,
I am exporting a function that takes
a component as an argument
and I'm returning a new React class
which is going to render the component.
Component, and I'm going to spread it across and hit save.
Now just hit refresh,
kind of get this out of the messed up state.
Already there is a problem.
Okay so even though this higher auto component
shouldn't be doing anything
except for rendering the component, the problem is this.
It can't read map undefined, it's trying to read schedule.
Schedule is undefined.
Okay so the reason that's undefined is that the index,
get initial props was never called.
This was never run.
Okay so if I put console log in here, and hit save,
go to my server, we can see that console log
is never called at all.
So just to get around this for a moment,
I'm just gonna fix this so that the brackets,
I'm just gonna default to an empty ray.
I should be able to do it there.
(mumbles)
Okay so the page is rendering again, that's what we need.
And the problem that we face now is that
the higher auto component
isn't calling this get initial props.
So that's what's special about Next higher auto components.
We need to add this in static, async, get initial props.
Okay so the context is passed in.
Remember this contains things like the query,
the request, the response, and so on.
And we can just return that back out.
Okay, it's still going to be empty,
we're not gonna have the schedule.
But what we're gonna do is say,
if type of component,
get initial props equals function,
then we're going to call it.
So we're going to do let props equal empty,
and I've had to return props like that.
And I'm gonna do props equals await CTX.
So when I say this, this should,
in theory, get our schedule.
There we go.
And then the client side as well.
Okay, so that looks like it's working again, that's good.
So whenever we make a higher auto component,
we must include this call to make sure that we're
being a good citizen of our wrapped component.
So, now that that's done, the next video I'm gonna do
will do kind of, the authentication and then
pulling in the user that we've authenticated.
Now the authentication process is going to be happening
all on the server side, via GitHub third party auth.
I'm not going to go through the details of that
because it's kind of way beyond the scope
and it's server side logic, and like I said,
that'll be bespoke for you.
So we'll look at that next.